CS 31A
FALL 2014
PC-DBA PROPOSAL
9 OCTOBER 2014

AMATEUR’S GUIDE TO THE GALAXY
→ TEAM: Robert Mitchell, Anna Chang, Christopher Dunleavy

Description:
→ The database will allow users to query the data for nearby stars of high
brightness that they could then observe with their telescope (nearby = within
50 parsecs, and bright = magnitude higher than +9.0).

Data Source:
	>https://github.com/astronexus/HYG-Database
→ Since cosmological data is so complex, it would require more domain knowledge
for our group to handle, which is why we chose a dataset that an amateur could
navigate without sacrificing a robust set of interesting attributes to query.
Since tabular data is best suited for setting up a database, we decided to
search for catalogs that are not too overwhelming in scope.

The above referenced dataset combines three major catalogs: the Hipparcos
Catalog, the Yale Bright Star Catalog (5th ed.), and the Gliese Catalog of
Nearby Stars (3rd ed.).  This is where its name, ‘HYG’ comes from.  The dataset
is available as a CSV file, which will help us when we need to begin
building/importing into our database.

One of the challenges will be acquiring enough domain knowledge to make
meaningful queries.  Nevertheless, it is also an appealing feature for our
group, since we are all very curious individuals.  Another challenge will be
the amount of actual records.  Luckily, the attributes are very well defined
and sensible; therefore, the number of records should not pose too much of a
problem so long as we have well elaborated relationships and a good reason to
perform queries.

An exciting feature of the dataset is geospatial/coordinate fields, which we
may be able to use for visualization.  There are two fields that contain
location-based data in two specific formats:
	>X,Y,Z:
	>VX,VY,VZ

Another exciting feature is the possibility of using SQL and the database in
conjunction with other kinds of analysis and visualization tools.

Next steps require specification through the diagramming of our entity
relationships.
